Let's get into problem number two, says a student trying out for the football team kicks the football
straight up in the air.
The ball hits him on the way back down.
It took three seconds from the time when the student punted the ball until he gets hit by the ball.
A what is the football's initial velocity?
B, how high did the football travel?
OK, so how are we going to purchase now?
All right.
So just understand it's own come up and come back down over here like this.
Right.
OK, so I have a question for you.
It says it takes three seconds.
What does this 30 seconds represent?
OK, so it says it took three seconds from the time when the student punted the ball until he gets hit
by the ball.
--, and he gets hit.
OK, so this three seconds represents what that's the total time, right?
So t total.
Is equal to the three seconds.
OK, well, so if we are using this position here as our initial position and this over here as our
final position and we're considering the trajectory of the ball from here to here.
So this is our initial and this is our final HAINA.
What?
When we're using the given information over here, are we going to be using the total, the time toll,
or do we care about the time the ball travels from here to here?
Yeah, not so.
We're going to be using this time.
So that's the time to rise.
Which is.
The one point five seconds.
Because we have a lot of great given information over here.
We know that the velocity here at this point is equal to zero meters per second.
We know.
At this point, what's the initial height of the ball that's going to be at zero meters, so we have
VEF over here, what's acceleration of the ball and what isn't ball going to be affected due to gravity?
So we have acceleration due to gravity acting on the ball.
OK, so and what are the two questions?
It says what is the initial velocity of the football?
So we're trying to find out the eye as well as how high.
OK, so the final height over here and the.
So if we're using this initial position and this as our final position, then the time that we're interested
in is the one point five seconds.
So that's what we're going to be using as our identity.
OK, so we have our problem set up and all we have to do is plug this into the equations and we could
get our answers.
All right.
So I know that the first question is asking for the initial velocity, but let's find out how high the
football traveled.
OK, so if we're trying to find out how high traveled, what we're going to do is we're going to say
that the initial velocity, the V is the variable that we don't care about.
So when we come over here once again, we're going to be looking for the final the final height.
Right.
So what we want to do is cancel out all the equations that have to do with initial velocity.
So over here gambiae, looking for initial velocity.
We have the initial velocity right there, so we can't use this formula.
OK, this one, we have initial velocity right there.
Can you see that one?
Hmm, we have initial velocity right here.
OK.
Oh, wait a minute, we have initial velocity right here as well, so we can't do that.
Wait a minute.
OK, so maybe that's the reason why it's telling us first to find the initial velocity, the ball,
it's because all of these equations over here have to do with initial velocity.
So therefore, we can't find out our final height before before finding our initial velocity.
So we are going to have to find this one out first.
OK, so come back over here, let's undo all of this, all these all these equations have initial velocity
in them, so.
We have to find our initial velocity first and then we'll need it to figure out the final position of
the ball, the height of the ball.
So let's find out what our initial velocity is.
We're going to say that we don't care about are the height of the ball.
So let's come over here.
Where do we see the height of the ball?
The Y right there.
We got the Wyeth right here.
We have Wyeth.
And over here, we have Wyeth.
All right, so this is the only equation that doesn't have Wyeth in it.
So let's use this to find the initial velocity v F is equal to a V.I. plus R acceleration times R Delta
T..
Once again, we're going to make sure that we wrote this down.
Correct.
And now it's pretty good, right?
OK, so let's plug in our given information now.
So we have our Veth, which is zero.
That's at the maximum height.
And then our V.I. is what we're trying to find, plus our acceleration, which is our negative nine
point eight times our Delta T, which is our one point five.
OK, so let's toss this in the calculator.
We're just going to simplify the negative nine point eight times the positive one point five.
What will we get here, positive or negative?
Hopefully, hopefully you're saying to yourself, won't get a negative number.
So plug in that calculator.
We get negative fourteen point seven.
So something out for our V.I. We have a negative fourteen point seven.
How do we get rid of the negative fourteen point seven at fourteen point seven to both sides of the
equation and we will get fourteen point seven metres per second as our initial velocity.
OK, so once again.
We do know that we're going to need this value to calculate our final height over here, so.
Is there any variable that we don't care about, well, we have this we have everything else.
The only thing that we don't have is our final height.
So what we can do is this.
We could basically use any of this that has to do with final height.
The only equation that doesn't have to do with final height is this one right here.
So we can't use the third equation, but we could use every single one of these other equations because
it has the final height in it.
And we have all the other variables that are associated with these formulas, so I'll tell you this.
I'm going to use either for my four or five, because why is already salts for on the left hand side
the equation?
I'm not going to use this one because I don't want to have to suffer.
Why?
If you could choose any one of these formulas and you should get the same answer.
But I'm going to use let's go with formula number four, OK?
OK, so I'm just going to write out Formula number four and here we go.
We have why F is equal to Delta T, let's double checked.
Make sure that I wrote that out.
Correct.
And it looks pretty good, right?
All right, and let's just plug in.
And our.
Initial velocity is going to be R 14.
Point seven, I don't like having to do this because we're having to use a value which we calculated,
but in a situation like this, we're kind of forced here.
So let's just roll with it.
And all we have to do is plug everything in the calculator.
Obviously, we don't need to plug this end or this over here.
We just have the point five times the fourteen point seven times one point five, and we should get
the answer.
Eleven point zero twenty five.
Meters, and that's how high it goes.
OK, so those are our two answers now.
That does it.